---
layout: post
date: 2012-10-21
title: "Skim-Society: Whole-Story"
categories:
- blog
---
<p>We live in a skim-society. If you aren't skimming because you don't have time to read the entire piece, you are skimming because you don't want to waste time reading one interpretation or attempting to untangle the gritty translation to lay-speak in order to get at the core of the topic.</p><p>Whatever your reason,  you skim, I skim, we all skim.</p><p>The next question might be:<br>Is this a problem?</p><p>Followed by:<br>How do we solve this?</p><p>Let's address the first question. Are we missing more than a few coherent sentences, lead ins, or paragraphs when we skim?</p><p>I'd like to think we aren't, however no studies I have read (fully) have addressed this issue. I have no formal or expert opinion on the topic, sinply my gut feeling.  My gut feeling, regardless of where I now fall on the spectrum, tells me that we are all missing out on the process of completing and internalizing a honest argument. I think the process is more important than the content, at least for what I read, because I have become perennially perturbed by unfinished to-do's despite my young age. At the end of the day, I don't feel accomplished and can't recall what I read.</p><p>I am arbitrarily attributing this feeling, and increasing inability to retain information, to this skim-nesia—as Obama might put it—and the tendency to read quickly whilst thinking, listening and working on other projects.  In some ways, I can see how my university education has contributed to this tendency. I am asked to read so many things in one week, reading each thoroughly is out of the question. At work, you are asked for the same style of quick but critical analysis, but to not get stuck in time drains, and this can contribute to the skim-nesia as well.</p><p>That is not to say our environments are wholly responsible for this skimming.</p>
<p>On a very personal, and lazy, level, I am too distracted to give a piece of writing the time it deserves—the time I hope people give my own pieces (this one for example)—and I actively choose to skim each piece.</p><p>A thought-experiment:</p><p>***********************</p><p>You are sitting at the kitchen table reading the newspaper. Now think of the motivation required if you were to leave the table in order to go do something else, such as read a book or find another newspaper to get a second opinion. I know, I get tired just thinking about it.</p><p>***********************</p><p>Within that scenario, one I have been in many times, I am much more likely to read articles on topics I wouldn't usually and read them completely, than with online sources.</p><p>We don't have this problem anymore with the internet. I can simply open washingtonpost.com if I am out of free nytimes.com articles. I can jump from foreign policy issues to the latest celebrity wedding with such ease, there seems no opportunity cost to do so.</p><p>Not only am I jumping from topic to topic, I am talking about these articles while I jump. The emergence of omnipresent social media has provided immediate access to n  + 1 networks discussing an incalculable number of topics. I find I want to participate in the conversation before I have fully understood the matters at hand. Perhaps this is why critics warn the public from reading the tweets based on influential events, like the national presidential debates, as a first news source.  What we say immediately is important, there's no doubt about that, but when these immediate opinions converge with a good long read of the facts it makes the afterthought that much more telling.</p><p>The follow up question, how we halt this tendency, is more difficult to answer. I am writing this as an experiment to see if I can sit down and dedicate time to something I am not obligated to do. This is my first step. But I am curious to hear other opinions about this skim-society, as I have now coined it. (Although all are free to use it.)</p><p>2/3 of my roommates say they skim often, but perhaps not as often as I do. Maybe I am alone in this. If that is the case, I apologize for broadening the scope by using "we".</p><p>If I am not alone, let me know if you agree <a href="https://twitter.com/mayarichman">@mayarichman</a> and what ways we can change this inclination for shallow scanning.</p>

