---
layout: post
date: 2012-11-2 
title: "More To Say"
categories:
- blog
---
<h5>Hey Adrienne:</h5>
<p>I want to acknowledge that there is much more to say on the topics I have touched upon in the last few days. I will continue to add to my original posts and search for new perspectives. The topic is large and diverse and cannot be summed up by a paper, a blog post, or any one representation.</p><p>I am excited to add my two-cents on these topics and work off the findings of others in a non-academic setting. There is no due date for me, or completion of work. In many ways, this assigment was not work at all. I hope I have expressed that I have begun to ask myself these questions, though have a long way till "answering" them, as that is the position I find myself in. This position, however, is one I have arrived at through my own direct means, and hope I remain conscious of it's construction as I continue this process.</p><p>For those curious, the prompt for this project was:</p><p>What relevance does or might “Third World Solidarity” have for social and/or liberation movements today?</p><p>Now that I think about it, I am not sure if I have <font stlye='font-size:20px;'>directly</font> answered it. Perhaps it's relevance is already apparent to me due to my los angelian liberal upbringing where social justice issues were acknowledged and discussed frequently, so the answer seems obvious. I cannot let my particular frame of reference, one of privledge and thoughtful guidance on these topics, obscure the importance of articulating the relevance "Third World Solidarity" has in my life, and social/liberation movements today. It is this assertion of my relation to the ideals of the "Third World Solidarity" movement and all discourse with humanity in mind that helps breakdown these artifical boundries, whether on maps or more embedded and invisible demarcations.</p><p>Thank you for allowing the class the flexibility to discover the topics on their own. I have found the process itself to be more illuminating as to my own position within the movement than the content I found, which in my experience feeds back into a deeper comprehension of the material itself.</p>