---
layout: post
date: 2012-10-29
title: "Third-World Solidarity Part. 2 OR Not \"For Us\", But Porous!"
categories:
- blog
---
<font style='font-style:italic;'><p>“The most serious danger is that by following others we fail to disclose what we actually know and believe."</p><p>"A well-functioning democracy...encourages independence of mind. It imparts a willingness to challenge prevailing opinion through both words and deeds. Equally important, it encourages a certain set of attitudes in listeners, one that gives a respectful hearing to those who do not embrace the conventional wisdom. In the culture of free speech, the attitude of the listeners is no less important that that of speakers.”</font> <br><br>- Cass Sustein from <font style='font-style:italic;'>Why Societies Need Dissent</font><p><p>Recently, I have been thinking about the premium society places on social cohesion and the pitfalls of removing dissenting or differing voices from the dialouge simply for the sake of preserving it. One such example of this social coheison might be the construction of delineated immigrant communities within urban environments.	Collecting themselves in pockets of the city, they form a geographical cohesion that allows for the production of a social safety net, and, alongside this, a potential for insular community development.</p><p>We see this pattern in cities like Los Angeles, with the formation of neighborhoods like Koreatown, Little Osaka and Thai Town. While in some ways these ethnic communities are cocoons within Los Angeles, they are not enirely detached from the city. I am interested in discovering not only the places where these communities merge, but also where they build solidarity between each other's social movements. Essentially, I am hope to learn how disparate ethnic groups can relate to each other within a diverse city, using Los Angeles as an example since it is closest to my knowledge (and heart).</p><p>Not all cases of inter-ethnic relations in Los Angeles produces solidarity, third world or otherwise. In Chong-suk Han's piece, <font style='font-style:italic;'>We Both Eat Rice, But That’s About It: Korean and Latino Relations in Multi-ethnic Los Angeles</font>, resturants are examples of places where Koreans and Latinos have daily contact with each other, and are locations where "ethnic prejudices and misconceptions created within the confines of these specific interactions develop into widespread belief systems"(Han 237). He argues that split labor markets helped shape a system of oppression between the two groups, constraining daily interactions and leading to ethnic antagonism.</p><p>Chong-suk's piece is the first example I have read of possible obstructions to third world solidarity. What I have gathered is that economic structures are capable of producing new relations of oppression that can outweigh potential commonalities, such as shared oppression due to racist American ideologies.Logically then, more exposure to different opinions/experiences that falls outside the oppressive environments constructed around them, and the more open-minded listening, the fewer misconceptions and thus, the greater potential for solidarity and change.</p><p>Now the question becomes, how do we remove ourselves from these externally imposed oppressive environments?</p>
	 
	 